hey do you need to do a remote or
virtual presentation to your management
if you do here are five tips that you
need to know to kill it but first please
like this video And subscribe to my
channel if you haven't already I create
lots of useful marketing content you
won't want to miss so here is the
biggest secret of doing an effective
presentation it's really to focus on
what you can control so so what can you
control you can control your audience
your content your presentation style and
your surrounding I'm going to break down
these four elements into five components
number one know your
audience this should be a no-brainer but
the first rule of thumb is to get a
solid understanding of who will attend
your meeting who are the decision makers
or influencer what do they care
what do they want to know and what will
they poke about and poke around talk to
colleagues or managers who have
presented to them in the past gather as
much intelligence as possible about your
audience you also need to know of how
they feel about the topics you are
presenting for starters do they like
your topics do they feel what you are
proposing is a money drain
and then they will drag their feed
before making a decision thinking about
these questions will also help you
determine how you want to go about your
presentation number two create killer
content first thing first map out your
structure and flow get to the point from
the beginning tell them why they are
here and what they are going to get out
of it that is your opening once you have
the opening then tell your story step by
step according to the objectives of your
presentation you set up at the opening
are you providing research findings so
they can contemplate product role maps
are you pitching an idea to get funded
to expand your businesses or are you
just providing key initiatives updates
so they know what's going on tell them
what they need to know what have you
done and what you are going to do try to
explain complex ideas in timeline
visuals or Frameworks give a lot of
thoughts on how you want to present the
information try to convert words to some
visuals break things down in ways that
your audience will easily grasp or care
about at the end of presentation you
need to drive home your points as well
as open up the discussion to clarify
anything the audience wasn't clear up
you also need the end portion of your
presentation to map out next steps as
well as make key decisions if key
players are unable to make a decision
reinforce the consequences of not making
that action will that delay to the
initiative will you waste the budget or
whatnot right explain the consequences
clearly now here's a good rule of thumbs
in terms of how you need to divide your
time for the opening the middle and and
the end spend about 5 to 10% of the time
for your opening 70% about the middle
and then 20 to 25% to wrap things up
number three find a balance between high
level and detail you'll need to
determine how much information you want
to pack into your deck based on how much
time you have to present i' suggest
finding a balance between high level and
detail when it's too high level they
will ask a lot of questions when it's
too detailed you will lose their
attention so finding the balance is a
personal judgment code that comes back
to how well you understand your audience
most importantly you need to have data
to substantiate your claims this is
especially important if you are asking
for more budget and a head count have
two or three references to back of your
points and recommendations number four
be
you you don't need to tell
jokes i' encourage you to be you explain
clearly to them why you want to
communicate get to the point answer the
questions they ask you
directly nailing your delivery has more
to do with your preparation less with
your style the way to nail your delivery
is to practice practice practice the
more you practice the more confident you
are lastly number five minimize the
chaos try to keep things as
aesthetically pleasing and minimally
chaotic as possible that means choosing
a quiet place to present ensuring your
place is tidy or blurred or hidden by a
virtual
background and bring the lights to your
face make sure that people can see your
face I'm a big fan of rain lights
suppressing background noise via your
virtual presentation platform if
possible silencing your phones for
example anything you can do to cut down
on distractions is going to be super
valuable both in keeping your audience
engaged and in making you feel you have
got this and you are in
control by the way if you want more tips
or oneon-one coaching feel free to reach
out this is what I do in the meantime
please like comment or subscribe to my
channel if you like this video good luck
presenting and see you next time take
care bye